All right.
The next operation that we are going to do for the message history is with the SQL chat message history.
So we are going to be using the same chat message histories library that we are going to have over here,
but just that we are going to use what is called a SQL chat message history instead of the chat message
history that we have got.
So basically in the SQL chat message history, the chat histories are going to be saved on an database
instead of you storing it, uh, like on the, on the memory, uh, during the runtime.
That is what we are going to be doing over here.
So how do we actually do that?
We are going to call the new library that I was talking about.
So these things are going to remain exactly the same.
So I'm just going to leave that guy as it is.
And you put a markdown over here.
I'm going to say a chat message history with SQL, uh, chat message history, something like that.
That is what we are going to be talking about over here.
So let's see how we can able to achieve this.
So I'm going to do from chain community chat message history.
And over here you see that we have got the SQL chat message history.
But actually if you just do control space you can see there are so many different chat histories available
either MongoDB chat, message history, Postgres, um, zip chat history, SQL chat, message history,
uh, Kafka chat message history.
Um, and then you see that zip cloud message history.
There are so many of the chat message histories available, so you can use any one of them.
And everything is written by the community, so you can actually use one of them based on your need
while you develop the LM application.
So yeah, this is one of the library which you should be using it for the chat message history.
And now I'm going to import this particular library for my operation over here.
And I'm going to start implementing the code.
So again for the code implementation the code remains pretty much exactly the same, like how we have,
uh, written over here like this is going to be the template.
Maybe I'm going to just use the same template and the same chain that we are going to use.
Let me just copy them and I'm going to paste that over here.
And I'm also going to be doing the invocation, which is going to be pretty much exactly the same as
well.
So there is no change on that as well.
So I'm going to copy this entire code that we discussed earlier.
And I'm going to put it over here.
And I'm also going to use the same exact thing which is the session and the get session history.
So I'm going to copy this.
And in fact I'm going to paste that over here.
So you may be thinking that Karthik what is the difference between the existing code versus the new
code that we are writing?
Well, the only difference comes in the get session history method that we are going to be writing over
here.
So I'm going to say def of get session History.
And over here I'm going to get the session ID over here and the session ID over here.
I'm going to return the SQL chat message history.
So this is the only difference which I was talking about.
And over here I'm just going to store the session ID as the session ID that I'm passing in directly
regardless.
And I'm going to pass a connection string over here.
So the connection string I'm going to be using is the SQL Lite database, which is going to be SQLite
of triple slash.
And probably I'm going to say chat history dot DB over here.
So that is the only thing that I need to give over here in this particular method.
Other than that this entire operation is going to look pretty much exactly the same like how we did
before.
It's going to store all the information, like all the, uh, all the chat messages in the SQL chat
message history for us.
That's it.
That's the only thing.
And the remaining thing remains exactly the same.
There is no big difference between the earlier and the new one that we have got right.
And now let's try to run this code and see what is going to happen.
So if I try to run this code, you'll notice that there is a deprecation deprecation warning coming
up over here for the connection string.
Probably this is going to be deprecated pretty soon.
Uh but yeah look at that.
The average distance between the Earth and sun is approximately 9.3 million miles over here, and the
distance between Earth and Moon varies slightly due to the elliptical shape of the Moon's orbit around
the Earth, and an average distance is about this one.
Amazing.
This is already working, guys.
We can see that it is working.
And you will also notice that we will have a chat Historydb file created this time.
So you should see the chat history sitting in over here in the SQLite database.
So if you have an explorer for the chat for the SQLite database, you could actually able to explore
that and see how that actually works.
I guess I had a SQLite tool.
Um, so I'm going to go search for SQLite.
Uh, over here.
Just this one.
Yeah.
Let's look at that.
I already have it for some reason it's not bringing up.
So I'm going to, uh, trust and okay, install it.
So all I have to do is just open the SQLite database explorer.
Okay, cool.
Let's let's try to do that.
Uh, over here, control shift p SQLite open database.
And yeah, there we go.
It just brings up Testdb file.
Um.
Which is done.
And where does it open really.
Look at that.
Here.
Here we go.
So we have got this chat method history.
And we have got the message store over here.
If I try to run this one look at that.
So there is this data being stored over here, for as a human is going to ask the data, what is the
distance between the earth and sun?
And there is going to be a response coming up from the eye saying this is the content.
And then again the human is asking the same session ID look at that.
The session ID is pretty much exactly the same.
Karthik and we're going to have the human message asking how about from moon?
And then this answer is going to come from the AI.
This is amazing.
So we can see the data is being stored in the SQLite database for us.
And we will also see the exact same thing from our Langschmidt as well.
So if I go to the Lange Smith over here and look at that, if I try to load the latest message, you'll
notice that we're going to have the message coming up over here.
So runnable with message history.
Uh, look at that.
So we have got all the informations over here.
So uh over here it's going to insert into the history and then it's going to load the history, and
then it is going to load the history information from this particular message.
So the same thing is going to happen for every single operation.
So how about from moon and the distance between the Earth and sun.
It is going to insert into the history.
And look at that over here.
So it is inserting so that it takes some time.
But for loading it is taking no time.
And it's just bringing up the message.
And then it's bringing up information over there.
So we can essentially see all the, uh, trace information from behind the scene as well, like how
things are happening.
So this is how we can see that we can make use of the chat message history to store the information
in the external database or even in the memory using the chat message history or using the SQL chat
message history.
With that, we can see that we can use the same functionality while we are building our chatbot in our
next section.